i'm not cynical enough to suggest that
it's all about the money
but you can't ignore the fact that i
think the communist party of china has
given our universities
through the years don't hold me to this
figure exactly but about 150 million
dollars
the list goes on and on we have a number
of things that are very different
between the perspectives of a free
people in the united states of america
and the leadership of of china and so i
wonder whether these confucius
these uh confucius institutes are part
of an influence campaign
by the chinese government to shape
attitudes in the minds of the american
children the coming generations as to
those
those kinds of differences is this
really a propaganda effort
a a a mind-shaping effort
of our young people being carried out
through
the auspices of these confucius
institutes
i would say generally the state
department supports
international educational exchange we
support americans learning critical
languages
that that makes all the sense in the
world to study other languages and to
learn about other cultures
but the question i have is whether the
chinese government is selecting
individuals funding for individuals into
our into our educational institutions
um uh with the intent not just of
letting us learn
a a important global language but also
and and
and a different culture but also to gain
a perspective
on a host of issues where they and we
have different points of view
thank you for the question i would say
that in the course of the work that we
did looking at confucius institutes the
one thing that really popped out for us
was the variety of activities that they
do
you know you certainly heard about the
language training and i think as
as ranking member carper talked about in
his statement there are a variety of
other cultural events that they focus on
holiday celebrations cooking events
things like that
we didn't really focus on questions that
you were focused on there
but i think that the it's notable the
variety of activities that they perform
[Music]
yeah i'm not sensing anyone jumping to
the to the bait on that
senator for louisiana thank you mr
president i want to
i want to talk for a few minutes mr
president about the good people of china
confucius institutes and the
chinese communist party the communist
party of china
is trying to not only swallow china it's
trying to swallow
the communist party of china being as
aggressive
as it is has for a number of years
reached out to our colleges and
universities
to establish what the communist party of
china calls
confucius institutes and this was
the pitch made by the government of
china to our universities
we will give you bucket loads of money
if you you know our universities
american universities will allow us to
establish
confucius institutes these institutes
run by the authoritarian government of
china
will not allow the free exchange of
ideas
they will not allow anyone to talk about
the uighurs or the people of tibet
or hong kong or what happened to
tiananmen square
um they basically they meaning the
communist party of china has used these
confucius institutes
as propaganda arms i have a bill
if kids i shouldn't call them kids if
young people in our universities want to
talk about
tibet they get to talk about tibet
and the bill would say that the
universities have to take back control
of these
confucius institutes from the communist
party of china
otherwise they're not going to be
eligible for federal funds the senate
passed
twice twice as bills passed united
states senate the last time
with bipartisan support we put the bill
on on the ndaa
and mr president you know how conference
committees work at the ndaa
sometimes it's a ferret fire drill and
there's a lot of confusion
and somehow the confucius
institute bill got watered down to do
nothing
so i'm going to ask my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle
to pass the confucius institute
act for a third time
s 590 a bill to establish limitations
regarding confucius
institutes and for other purposes
without objection the senate will
proceed to the measure
mr president i ask unanimous consent
that the bill be considered a third time
in past
and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the table
is there objection without objection
thank you mr president
what is the single most effective method
of language education
in the history of the world you need a
minute you need a minute
marriage
what is the second most effective
method of language education in the
history of the world
prostitution
governments have an astounding
failure in the province of language
education
even when they have the strongest
most strident motivation possible to
succeed and when they try to put
the most resources imaginable
into succeeding this video is partly
about politics
partly about propaganda partly about
strategic
diplomacy between the united states and
china and it's partly about the politics
of language education and i am unusually
qualified
to speak about both there was a time
when i applied to become a citizen of
israel
in fact there has been more than one
occasion on which i started doing the
paperwork
to become a citizen in israel and you
start making phone calls to people
i've told anecdotes with these funny
conversations i had with the bureaucrats
who handled that process
and you know it seems less and less
likely with each passing year that i
will end up
retiring in israel shall we say but i
would still say there is a more than
zero percent chance i will end up
becoming a citizen of israel
eventually government of israel
has the strongest motivation
in the world to have highly effective
programs to teach the modern hebrew
language to new immigrants and they have
new immigrants coming from
the united states of america from france
from russia
from iraq from iran it's it's remarkably
multicultural
and multilingual just speaking within
the jewish population
of israel it's also a country
where the atheist minority
are besieged by the religious majority
and publish in english remarkably
incisive
criticisms of everything wrong with the
institutions created and sustained
by that religious majority and we know
thanks to this skeptical minority of
israelis
that the language institutes in israel
are a
total utter failure i read about this
from a kind of
academic perspective just interested in
what was going right what was going
wrong
and i read about it from the perspective
of someone who is looking at the
enormous challenge of struggling to
learn hebrew
while continuing to improve my ability
in chinese okay yeah look at this partly
with my own self-interest in mind
partly out of just comparative interest
right now
in the 21st century the canadian
government
has the strongest motivation imaginable
to try to make a success
out of education in cree
ojibwe mohawk
the indigenous languages of canada
okay there is a remarkable pattern of
governments
failing even when they have 110 percent
commitment
to language education as a focus and
when they have
less than 110 commitment and less
than an infinite budget the rate of
failure
only increases from there
now i am not a libertarian
i am neither a left-wing libertarian nor
a right-wing libertarian nor
centrist libertarian i'm in many ways an
anti-libertarian as it happens
the libertarian frame of mind with these
things always goes
well you know the government tried this
project
and it failed therefore
this will suddenly become successful and
more cost efficient
and more effective all kinds of
profound problems will be solved the
minute
it's taken out of the government's hands
and handed over
to charity in the private sector to
handle as soon as civil society
takes over one way that yes yes yes so
you're telling me
that um if the coroner's office
in new orleans is you know operating
very poorly
getting very poor quality of service
very poor accuracy very poor reliability
maybe long delays maybe corruption
the coroner's office that if we just
take the responsibility for the coroner
away from the government and give it to
the private sector
all those problems will will evaporate
right because when you when you take the
same institution
operate it at a profit
in a market context where it may only be
possible to operate it at a loss
losing then then it'll be a big set how
about the fire department
how about drinking water how about
sewage systems okay
i find the whole libertarian approach to
these things
fundamentally stupid we're staring into
the unbelievable abominable
failure of elite level
education in the united states of
america in the 21st century
and one of the most crucial one of the
most important failures of all
is indeed what they call education in
strategically important languages have
you
heard of you're this war in iraq thing
you heard about you heard about the war
in afghanistan
how many people have you met in
your entire life who studied
any of those languages and i'm sorry but
here we can't
count people if you know some refugees
or you know some immigrants so you know
some people are actually
born and raised in those cultures no no
no no no no no
americans whose mother language at home
was
english and english only but who
sat down to learn to crack
open the books and start learning dari
or pashto
or one of the salient dialects of arabic
with the same spirit whereby ambitious
young men
in the british empire sat down and
started studying
sanskrit so they can get a good posting
in the colonies
in india okay now the british empire i
am not applauding it was bad and sick
and evil and wrong
in its earlier phase it was built on
slavery in its later phase it was built
on the opium trade
great story could talk about another
video right i'm not speaking in support
of the british empire but you know
pretty much any time you ask a
specialist
what was the difference between the
british empire period
and the american more vaguely
imperialist
period in the middle east specialists
will say again and again you know
the people the british sent over
they were scholarly america
innumerable advantages over the british
empire new world advantages
over every other rampart that's ever
existed in the history of the world i
could praise the american empire
in many ways you know what the only guys
who became fluent in vietnamese during
the vietnamese war
were the guys who got married to local
vietnamese women or the guys who slept
with a whole lot of vietnamese
prostitutes
okay today why don't you just look
around at universities
in the united states of america where
are your learned men
who are fluent in vietnamese and where
are your alerted men
who are fluent in the languages of
afghanistan
central asia iraq this is not a feature
of the american empire and there is a
critical shortage
of americans learning chinese especially
when you talk about learning the chinese
language
at a high enough level to be capable
of dealing with chinese politics
this is not merely being able to give a
guided tour
to tourists if the confucius institute
existed
in the united states of america in order
to transmit
the language and to train people to have
that level of language ability or any
language
any level of language ability whatsoever
all right it would be worth much much
more than 150 million dollars
it would be something absolutely
priceless for the united states of
america
and it would be a strategic asset the
united states america
and it is not the confucius
institute has existed from the first day
of its inception its implementation as a
strategic
asset for the government of china which
yes
happens to be the communist party the
rules china
it exists for absolutely no
other reason than to advance the
interests
of the government of china in the united
states of america
it's a little bit of a different story
if we're talking about the rest of the
world
now what is the agenda
of the confucius institute and then it
says america
i happen to be vegan and you know a lot
of forms of vegan activism
are really counterproductive and fail
and
frankly ruin people's lives and put
people in prison and
i'm a critic of a lot of the things that
vegans do
to try to advance the vegan cause but
one of the things i point out is
now every so often you walk into a
coffee shop
and sitting there in front of you as
you're staring at the counter
is the word vegan and maybe it's there
four or five times
because there are some muffins and some
cookies on sale
and next to them in parentheses it says
vegan
oh this is a chocolate mousse this is a
chocolate mousse and i know there are
little kids
who walk into that coffee shop with
their mom holding their mom's hands
say oh vegan what does that mean
like oh gee there are two cookies and
they look the same
but one says vegan and it's possible the
mom will say shut up forget about it
no it's possible they've almost split
there is a kind of propaganda function
just in communicating to children and
communicating to young people
hey veganism exists veganism matters
veganism is an option veganism
is a competing worldview
in some ways equal to and counter
opposed to
the other world view represented by the
chocolate cookie that doesn't say vegan
next to it
you know oh there's milk and then
there's vegan milk in this way
china does profoundly influence people's
lives
what kind of people people like my own
father
people like my own mother people who
don't
think they're spineless followers but
really
they are i heard a really tragic
interview today
with an old man he was talking about his
youth
and he was talking honestly about how he
listened to a rap album
and it made him decide to become a crack
cocaine dealer
and he was talking about how he got out
of prison and never decided to live a
better life
but then he went back to his
neighborhood and he basically just came
into contact with what happened to be in
fashion in his neighborhood rap music
and other things culturally
and he got back into he joined a
formerly joined a gang and got involved
with gang violence and murdering people
raping people too
he was willing to admit this he was
willing to admit his involvement in past
rapes murders and so on and he was
fundamentally willing to admit
that he did this because he was a
follower because he wanted to fit in
because he wanted to be cool with the
other guys
and he talked about his desire to be
manly and important and
real and the different totally
irrational
you know yearnings
behind these decisions on his part none
of you
none of you would listen to a rap album
and decide to become a drug dealer or a
murderer or a rapist
because you listen to a rap song right
it seems
laughable it seems ridiculous to
everybody
except the people who actually do it the
guy i saw an interview with today
he's all grown up now i'm sure if you
were talking to him back when he was 21
or 20 or 22 years old or something
this would not have been a laughing
matter of him this would have been his
life this was the path he was committed
to
he thought of himself as a rebel
when he was really the weakest and most
spineless conformist
of them all he was the most susceptible
to influence
okay my father
was raised by a single mother
in a steel town and her job was in
a steel factory she did paperwork
back in those days they didn't have
women doing the heavy lifting or pouring
molten steel
but she worked in a steel factory
okay my father had every privilege
imaginable handed to him in part because
the teachers in his school wanted to be
kind
and encouraging and hand him
opportunities because he was
a poor kid from a single parent family
in a still working town
i have never had any teacher have any
kind of positive attitude towards me
such as he completely took for granted
and he responded to all this by deciding
that what he wanted to be was
a rebel
and the reason why he responded to
chinese propaganda
and the reason why he became a devoted
follower
of mao zedong and the reason why he
became a member of
a communist extremist rebel faction
which i'm not going to get into
describing here in canada
you know despite his privilege just by
the fact he was given a scholarship
to go and get a phd which he dropped out
of by the way he didn't actually he
didn't ever get it
you know despite all the numerous
advantages in his life right
he thought he was being a rebel he
thought he was being a real man
he thought he was being strong when what
he was doing
was proving to us all that he is the
most susceptible
to influence that he's the weakest of us
all
so many of us can pick up that same rap
album and we can we can laugh at it or
we can listen to it as a kind of
wistful reflection from someone about
drug dealing and
pimping and maybe even you know contract
killing whatever the rappler except
no isn't that interesting that's someone
singing about his experiences in life
we don't feel any need to follow
this person as our leader we don't feel
any need to emulate them or be like them
the guy i heard the interview with today
he was saying explicitly
that he thought his own criminal career
originated from above all else the
absence
of a father figure in his life and he
doesn't know why
for whatever reason there's something
there
they they're looking for they reach out
for all right
and my father was the one guy who picked
up the same
pamphlets promoting mao zedong and
chinese communism
that you or i or any reasonable person
would just have a laugh at
or regard wistfully or think oh that's
interesting here's you know
here's someone writing about their
experience fighting against the japanese
you know
maybe it's just interesting we just
regard it with maybe we don't laugh at
it but
what does that have to do with me you
know i'm not gonna i'm not gonna become
a cult
flunky for this story
you know there was this powerful
delusion
for my father
that he was going to lead the revolution
the problem is
it wasn't his revolution
somebody else's he would never be
a leader he would always be a sheep
he'd always be a follower because it was
joseph stalin's
revolution or was mao zedong's
revolution
or was che guevara the cuban revolution
right it was never his
he never got past that childlike
view of the world of reaching out
for heroes reaching out for an absent
father figure right he never took the
next step
of realizing these people were just
creative writers
these people just took a blank sheet of
paper and wrote down their ideas
and tried to change the world at some
point creatively
soon enough destructively right
he never really started a revolution of
his own
he never started writing his own
questions and then coming to his own
answers and of course the greatest joke
of all is
when you live this way when you live as
an imitation
of christ you know you're not christ
you're living in imitation of christ
you're not a revolutionary you're living
as an imitation of revolutionary and
the other guy i mentioned you know
maybe you're not a real gangster maybe
you're a second-rate imitation
of a gangster you're imitating a rap
song right this isn't who you are
this is an act no matter how deeply you
commit to it you
know what you want to believe that's who
you really are it's not
right the other
bitter irony is right no matter how hard
you try you're never going to be
cambodian
you're never going to be vietnamese
you're never going to be chinese
you're never going to really understand
their struggle
and your attempt to recreate
that struggle in canada your attempt to
do a
second-rate knock-off imitation of
chinese communism in canada for the
canadian
climate shall we say for the canadian
political context
right that is going to be at best
ridiculous it's never going to have the
character of something
that developed in that country
in that culture by those people of by
the people
of the people for the people the danger
of
the confucius institute is greater
precisely because it's so easily
ignored and it's ignored
because we all want to ignore people
like my father
nobody wants to deal with them you know
within the classroom or amongst your
brothers and sisters
if you've got nothing nobody wants to
deal with
your brother or your cousin who's become
addicted to following conspiracy
theories
on the internet and then you find out he
went to washington dc
and participated in a riot and got
himself
put in prison nobody wants to deal with
your uncle
or your nephew who's becoming a member
of the kkk
he's more and more racist and then you
find out
how far he's taking it that he went down
the went down the rabbit hole
into extremism how dangerous is
the confucius institute
compared to christianity
on our university campuses compared to
mormonism compared to
hasidic judaism compared to
islam there are myriad ideologies
that are on university campuses and they
are open for business
and they are recruiting today
the ultimate reason politically why
nobody wants to deal
with putting in a heart limit to the
confucius institute and what it can and
cannot do
is that it's going to lead people in the
united states of america to question
their own communist parties their own
neo-nazi parties their own
you know miscellaneous extremist parties
the greatest least examined
most unquestioned form of radicalism
of all is boring mainstream
christianity and far more people
will decide that they want to fall into
lockstep and become the followers of
some form of protestantism
or some form of catholicism every day
in the same way that my father was
seduced by chinese communism
and others find other ways to rebel
through mindless conformism
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes